TODO_20251027.txt

A short list of fixes and then a bigger request:

0.  Why is the amount of javascript code creeping up ?    Is javascript easier
    to create ?  Maybe we should have created the whole project in javascript,
    (not really). Please keep all the logic and initialization in Go.
    We know that keeping 2 separate states synchronized is very difficult.

1.  Having devices displayed in random positions with devices changing their
    positions is disturbing to the human observer. It is preferred the
    devices are sorted by serial number obtained from the Announce message.
    It's not important what sort method is used but it is standard for us to 
    compare the 18 byte string starting with MSB (left most byte) followed
    by the byte to the right and so on. To avoid thrashing the web display I
    recommend only sorting a list of devices at least as often as the Announce 
    message is received then set a flag to redraw the display from the current 
    list when convenient, ei. at a lower priority than the sort.

2.  From the dashboard, selecting a device and clicking on the Device Terminal
    button opens a 'terminal' that displays data from ALL devices, it should 
    only display the data coming from the device selected on the dashboard.

3.  The selected device's Live Terminal should display more than just the 
    ANNOUNCE string, it should display as much information as is available from
    using protobuf reflection.

4.  The grey Clear button doesn't Clear anything apparently, I'm guessing it's 
    meant to clear the terminal window.
    

===  The bigger request:
The Protobuf Command sub page Show Available Commands give a list of available
protobuf requests and responses, very nice. Can you create a document describing
how best to use these commands please. Currently it appears to me as a set of 
empty boxes with protobuf labels with no description on what the type/contents,
or range of values. The boxes should be prefilled with default valid data or 
commands eg. a chlorinate command for the sanitizer.
Also in the commands there are fields that should be pre-filled, for example, 
the UUID should be pre-filled and displayed before the command is sent, 
also editable for testing, Someone may find that feature useful.

Lets do what we know works here, small code increments that are testable.
thankyou,
